Question 1: 
Configure SSH key in github account.
Creating ssh key
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "yogeshmishra24x@gmail.com"

eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"

ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

Now copy key
Add in github ssh

ssh -T git@github.com

----------------------------------------------------------
Question 2:
Created repo on github account 
And copied its ssh

Question 3: 
Clone Repo
git clone git@github.com:yogesh-mishra-ck/Day-6-BE.git

Question 4:
Create a new file, say test.txt, in main/master branch. Make some changes to this file and commit the changes.

Creating file
touch test.txt
cat > test.txt
Hello this is the day-6 file for testing git basics and using ssh.

Commit
git commit -m "Made changes in test file for day-6"


Question 5:
Create two branches from main/master branch, say f1 and f2.

Create branches
git branch f1
git branch f2

Question 6:
How can you resolve a merge conflict in Git, provide an example.

git checkout f1
Make changes in file in f1 branch
git add .
git commit -m "changes by f1"
git push origin f1


git checkout f2
Make changes in file in f2 branch
git add .
git commit -m "changes by f2"
git push origin f2

git checkout main
git merge f1
git merge f2

Conflict occured

git checkout main
Resolved by choosing f1
git push origin main

Question 7:
Show how divergence occurs in a branch.

Divergence occurs when branches are not in sync with each other
Situation 1:
Local Branch Divergence
When my local branch and remote branch are not in sync and remote branch already has some new commits that i have not yet pulled.

Remote Branch Divergence
When two different users have pushed changes to the same branch , but none of them have pulled the changes from each other.

Question 8.	
Difference between git init and git clone.

git init is used for initializing a local repository
git clone is used for cloning/fetching everything from an existing repository

Question 9:
Difference between git branch and git checkout.

git branch is used to see the list of branches present
we can also create a new branch using git branch
git branch branch_name

git checkout is used for going to a different branch.
git checkout branch_name

Question 10.
Difference between git fetch and git pull.
git fetch is used to bring updates from a repository but they are not merged into mine local branch.
git pull also brings updates from a repository but this time automatically attempts to merge the changes from the remote branch into the current local branch.


Question 11:
How to squash commits?
Squashing commits means to combine multiple commits into a single commit
This is used for cleaning our commit history

Creating a new branch
git branch squash-test

Creating multiple commits
git commit -m "squashing commits -first here"
git commit -m "squashing commits -second here"
git commit -m "squashing commits -third here"

Seeing git history
git log --oneline

Squashing three commits together
git rebase -i HEAD-3
Picking one and squashing rest

git push origin squash-test

Question 12.
Show the difference between git reset and git revert.

In git revert, a new branch is created with undo operation(undo the changes made by previous commit) so that we still have history of our branches
In git reset, the data cannot be recovered again, it is a permanent undo operation.

Question 13.
Delete branch from local and remote.

Deleting a branch

Local
git branch -d branch_name

Remote

Delete the remote branch
git push origin --delete branch-name

Clean up local references
git fetch -p